readme.md, before:

# kubernetes-diff-logger

This simple application is designed to watch Kubernetes objects and log diffs when they occur.  It is designed to log changes to Kubernetes objects in a clean way for storage and processing in [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki/).

## Example output

```
{"timestamp":"2022-10-06T08:34:30Z","verb":"updated","kind":"Deployment","notes":".spec.replicas: 1 -> 2","name":"podinfo","namespace":"default"}
{"timestamp":"2022-10-06T08:35:47Z","verb":"updated","kind":"Deployment","notes":".spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[1]: map[name:NEW_ENV_KEY value:newEnvValue] (added)","name":"podinfo","namespace":"default"}
```

See [Deployment](./deployment) for example yaml to deploy to Kubernetes.  The example will monitor and log information about changes in all namespaces.

## Usage

```
Usage of ./kubernetes-diff-logger:
  -config string
    	Path to config file.  Required.
  -kubeconfig string
    	Path to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -log-added
    	Log when deployments are added.
  -log-deleted
    	Log when deployments are deleted.
  -master string
    	The address of the Kubernetes API server. Overrides any value in kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -namespace string
    	Filter updates by namespace.  Leave empty to watch all.
  -resync duration
    	Periodic interval in which to force resync objects. (default 30s)
```

## Config File

```yaml
differs:
  - groupKind:
      group: "apps"
      kind: "deployment"
    nameFilter: "*want-to-log*"
  - groupKind:
      group : ""
      kind: "configmap"
    nameFilter: "*"
  - groupKind:
      group: "my.custom.group"
      kind: "mycustomresource"
    nameFilter: "*"
commonLabelConfig:
  enable: true
  ignoreKeys:
    - untracked-label-key
commonAnnotationConfig:
  enable: true
  ignoreKeys:
    - untracked-annotation-key
```

| Field                             | Type     | Description                                                                       |
|-----------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| differs.groupKind.group           | string   | Name of Kubernetes API group that you want to log diff.                           |
| differs.groupKind.kind            | string   | Name of Kubernetes resource kind that you want to log diff.                       |
| differs.nameFilter                | string   | Resource name filter by glob format that you want to log diff. (if not set = `*`) |
| commonLabelConfig.enable          | boolean  | Whether to log metadata.labels diff.                                              |
| commonLabelConfig.ignoreKeys      | []string | Key of labels that do not log diff.                                               |
| commonAnnotationConfig.enable     | boolean  | Whether to log metadata.annotations diff.                                         |
| commonAnnotationConfig.ignoreKeys | []string | Key of annotations that do not log diff.                                          |

Commit message:

change filter (from glob to regex)

readme.md, after:

# kubernetes-diff-logger

This simple application is designed to watch Kubernetes objects and log diffs when they occur.  It is designed to log changes to Kubernetes objects in a clean way for storage and processing in [Loki](https://github.com/grafana/loki/).

## Example output

```
{"timestamp":"2022-10-06T08:34:30Z","verb":"updated","kind":"Deployment","notes":".spec.replicas: 1 -> 2","name":"podinfo","namespace":"default"}
{"timestamp":"2022-10-06T08:35:47Z","verb":"updated","kind":"Deployment","notes":".spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[1]: map[name:NEW_ENV_KEY value:newEnvValue] (added)","name":"podinfo","namespace":"default"}
```

See [Deployment](./deployment) for example yaml to deploy to Kubernetes.  The example will monitor and log information about changes in all namespaces.

## Usage

```
Usage of ./kubernetes-diff-logger:
  -config string
    	Path to config file.  Required.
  -kubeconfig string
    	Path to a kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -log-added
    	Log when deployments are added.
  -log-deleted
    	Log when deployments are deleted.
  -master string
    	The address of the Kubernetes API server. Overrides any value in kubeconfig. Only required if out-of-cluster.
  -namespace string
    	Filter updates by namespace.  Leave empty to watch all.
  -resync duration
    	Periodic interval in which to force resync objects. (default 30s)
```

## Config File

```yaml
differs:
  - groupKind:
      group: "apps"
      kind: "deployment"
    matchRegex: "want-to-log"
    ignoreRegex: "want-to-(ignore|exclude)"
  - groupKind:
      group : ""
      kind: "configmap"
  - groupKind:
      group: "my.custom.group"
      kind: "mycustomresource"
commonLabelConfig:
  enable: true
  ignoreKeys:
    - untracked-label-key
commonAnnotationConfig:
  enable: true
  ignoreKeys:
    - untracked-annotation-key
```

| Field                             | Type     | Description                                                      |
|-----------------------------------|----------|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| differs.groupKind.group           | string   | Name of Kubernetes API group that you want to log diff.          |
| differs.groupKind.kind            | string   | Name of Kubernetes resource kind that you want to log diff.      |
| differs.matchRegexp               | string   | Regexp for resource name to log. (If blank, log all)             |
| differs.ignoreRegexp              | string   | Regexp for resource name to not log. (Priority over matchRegexp) |
| commonLabelConfig.enable          | boolean  | Whether to log metadata.labels diff.                             |
| commonLabelConfig.ignoreKeys      | []string | Key of labels that do not log diff. (exact match)                |
| commonAnnotationConfig.enable     | boolean  | Whether to log metadata.annotations diff.                        |
| commonAnnotationConfig.ignoreKeys | []string | Key of annotations that do not log diff. (exact match)           |
